where to begin the last trip we made to
France for the Christmas New Year
vacation as you Tru believe in
Christians might call it for us for us
it wasn't Christmas at all for us we
celebrated a completely different
holiday involving a completely different
white bearded man and not Santa let me
tell you regular viewers of this channel
will know we worked real hard to provide
an alternative to Christmas the same way
we as vegans are used to providing an
alternative to so many things fox
hunting bear wrestling vegan bear
wrestling buy your tickets now oh I just
got an email from a friend in Hong Kong
saying he was gonna go to a horse racing
event try to talk him through the vegan
alternatives the horse racing I was like
you know you know at the end of every
race some percentage of these horses get
shot and eaten really true hey wait so
yeah as vegans were accustomed to making
providing alternatives for the for the
whole family and we provide an
alternative Christmas on this last trip
to France for the Christmas New Year
holiday we had papers to serve the max
wife
we had divorce papers and legally what
we were supposed to do was see her face
to face and hand her these papers and if
she had just done that if she had just
been willing to accept the papers the
divorce would be in progress now and it
is not because she refused to accept the
papers I can show you email
substantiating this but there's a sense
in which when you're talking about
something that didn't happen there's not
gonna be a lot of proof or evidence
right so we take a stay back here I
really genuinely believe in freedom of
speech there's been a lot of really
phony crocodile tears on the internet
lately about freedom of speech and what
it means and what it doesn't I genuinely
accept the price of being a political
figure on the internet however
infinitesimal
my political significance maybe I
understand what I'm doing here I knew
what I was signing up for and I'm not
gonna come crying to you Oh
my ex-father-in-law came on the internet
and said I'm a failure
dude what do you think what do you think
would you rather live in a country like
the Communist Republic of Laos People's
Republic of Laos where you don't have
the freedom to do this let me tell you
something real short story from Laos I
knew a guy white white Canadian guy and
in a cafe in a coffee shop he said to
another white foreigner he said look you
should know this guy you're friends with
and this family you're getting a boat
with this guy or you're friends with he
just got out of prison on a rape charge
he was convicted of right and he was
brought into court for daring to say
this it was a hundred percent factual
what he said was completely correct he
was saying this person was convicted of
rape and served his time and just got
out of jail and you know he was advising
somebody warning someone you may not
know this this guy is a convicted rapist
and do you have the freedom of speech to
say that to damage someone's reputation
to talk about their private life that
way here in Canada you do in a communist
country as specifically a communist
country with Buddhist heritage like Laos
very different cultural attitudes - so
you do not - do I have my choice I could
live anywhere Laos Cuba Saudi Arabia
there's so many alternatives to
democracy over me and yet I choose to
live in a democracy where we have the
freedom of speech to do this to engage
in these these conversations and you
know I don't think freedom of speech is
only for intelligent people I don't
think it's only for sane people like I
don't think it's only for people who are
factually correct if you really believe
in freedom of speech in principle then
you have to believe that crazy people
have freedom speech you had people who
were just wrong right now in this case I
mean I don't you guys think this like
impacted me negatively emotionally I've
said repeatedly now you have no idea how
much I was laughing
the lies in this video that my
ex-father-in-law made its funnier to me
partly because I really know the extent
to which he's lying but I know something
else also if we're gonna make a Venn
diagram here a Venn diagrams one of
those diagrams with overlapping circles
it's a graphical convention you know
there's a circle for intentional lying
and when people say something inaccurate
or incorrect in the Internet it's really
easy to jump to the conclusion that
their intention aligned so my
ex-father-in-law Peter he made this
claim that the reason why the divorce
hasn't happened is because I have
refused to sign paperwork and this is
this is not just false it's really a
hundred and eighty degrees the opposite
the reason why the divorce isn't done
yet is because my ex-wife has evaded and
avoided dealing with divorce paperwork I
mean you know I could say more but that
example from that vacation it's a very
direct very tangible example where we
went to see her wants to deliver the
paperwork we had email afterwards saying
look please show up in person on this
date so we can serve you these papers
and we can move forward the divorce and
she intentionally and knowingly refused
to receive the papers knowing what that
was so it's true story what about what
am I gonna tell you um I don't assume
he's lying right
that's one circle on the diagram would
be intentionally lying another circle is
ignorance another circle is just not
knowing what you're talking about and
again to me that's another reason why I
just find the audience the audience for
this kind of dark drama content so
laughable this guy doesn't even claim to
know what he's talking about he doesn't
claim he's seen the divorce documents he
doesn't claim he's talked to his
daughter about this I don't believe
Narae put us puts up with any of his
crap I don't think she's in he seems to
know nothing about the past history of
the case or the current situation
legally and he knows nothing because
people are choosing not to confide in
him notably his own daughter does not
trust him or does not want to know this
stuff she's speaking of complete
ignorance he doesn't claim he's spoken
to me
he doesn't claim he's been to court or
God in the night he doesn't claim any
kind of positive engagement
Oldman in these issues past or present
and again he has no sources he's not
showing you emails or legal documents or
anything else says this ignorance and
then the third circle on this Venn
diagram the three circles all over lap
is when people are really deluded when
people are really crazy when people are
outright insane and those people also
aren't intentionally lying deal what
doesn't they turn in all the time they
may really sincerely believe that
telling you the truth they may really
boat sincerely believe they know what
they're talking about and they don't
know cuz they're a little bit out of
touch with reality which is obviously a
big factor here both for Pete and for
his tireless journalist that
correspondent there you are vegan so for
the audience look guys there's the
opposite to these three things also okay
there are people who come on the
internet with bad intentions who openly
tell you they don't know what they're
talking about and they have bad
intentions and they're here to just
blacken and condemn someone's character
cynically or dishonestly and then they
go ahead and do that what's their test
totally worth with no sources and no
claims that knowing anything so it
should be pretty easy for intelligent
members of the audience to take this for
what it's worth by which I mean dismiss
it out of hand as being of absolutely no
informational or advisory value okay um
and there are people who come on the
internet with good intentions trying to
inform you trying to share information
share their own life experience share
their own opinions or what-have-you and
you know those people are also going to
be wrong sometimes that's why freedom of
speech is so important I'm you know and
they can learn you know I've been wrong
about things and I've learned from my
mistakes you're on YouTube and again you
know I've I've spent so much time on
YouTube talking about mistakes I made in
my own life and really being
self-critical and really talking about
my own failures this idea that I'm you
know I'm someone who needs to be taken
down a peg in these these respects I
again it's coming from people who openly
tell you they don't watch any of the
videos on my channel
they don't read anything I've written
they don't know
anything about my work experience they
don't know anything about the time I
spent with my daughter they don't know
anything about the legal situation of
the divorce they don't know anything but
now they're gonna tell you this
salacious and and hidden you know you
know narrative on the basis of what so
look if their claims about me were true
there still is a real onus on the
audience here to think clearly about the
situation so let's say hypothetically it
were true that I was refusing to sign
some legal document but it's yours you
think there would be no reason for that
like do you think there wouldn't be a
rational consent like okay maybe I was
presented with a document and my lawyer
told me no don't sign it go to court
like if you read newspapers if you read
history of politics you must know of all
kinds of real-world examples of this
sort of thing where maybe someone's
presented with a legal document and they
refuse it now this is ironic I'm saying
it's not my situation and again there
are no legal documents I can show you
because we're talking would an absence
here I went through my email history
with my lawyer I have an email from my
lawyer saying no we've never received
any proposal from the lawyers and so
there's never been a proposed divorce
document or settlement or custody
arrangement right there from their side
I have made positive proposals for
everything including I made positive
proposals for paying child support and I
can prove that and it's all just email
history none of it was by telephone so
we have a paper trail on a precise date
and a reply for all these things you
know given that in this case hilariously
I'm making this video in response to the
allegation that I have refused to
divorce my ex-wife and the reality of
the legal situation we're in right now
is that my ex-wife refuses to divorce me
why I don't assume I assume there's some
reason you know it may be a bad reason
it may be a terrible reason but there
was a moment a lot of you guys will
remember from vegan cheetahs Channel
back when vegan cheetah was at the
height of his fame when he reported he
had a telephone call from their a from
Mexico near a phone him on an
old-fashioned telephone and he answer
the phone and he was just trying to
figure if this was who is this and he
says oh what you're so you're isil's
ex-wife and reportedly she screamed back
at him angrily I'm his wife I'm still
his wife now were not divorced I mean he
told the whole world that like it's not
just like he told me but when he told me
that it's like psychologically and in
terms of her motivation and her
perspective I cannot imagine what
motivated that like you've been
separated from me for years we've both
moved on with their lives
there's no possibility of reconciliation
again it's both in the legal documents
from court and everyone knows I dumped
her I made the decision and the
relationship you know that was how it
ended she did not dump me I did not want
to reconcile I didn't want to get back
together with her but that she phoned up
Charles she phoned up little cheetah and
she screamed at him at the phone no I'm
not his ex-wife I'm his on his wife
right now there's some real P thoughts
there there's something going on and I
don't want to ridicule her for it and I
don't want to speculate on what
motivates it I noticed all of her
websites have just disappeared within
the last week or a couple of weeks she's
been deleting her web presence you guys
may know she had several websites up
with current photographs of her and
stuff you know less than a month ago
those websites are still up I don't know
what motivates that to my knowledge my
ex-wife is now in effect married to her
second husband and they plan to live in
Bulgaria and she's either pregnant with
or was already given birth to to my
knowledge she's given birth to her
second child so she's moving on with her
life in so many ways and it's really
topic for a separate video I have a lot
of sympathy for you know what happened
with her professional career
that you mean again yes it's so toxic
what Pete did with this with Pete
presenting the world as if either you
have a PhD and you're successful or you
don't have a PhD in you're a failure and
in a lot of fields that's not true
including Pete's own field computer
programming most successful computer
programmers especially his generation
they had no formal education they didn't
get a computer science degree there was
that you know path-breaking a generation
of computer problems but like you know
buddhist studies like humanitarian work
the stuff that nurses me politics are
most important people in politics too
they have ph decent politics you know
the stuff that interests me academia is
pretty weak on and you know this is this
is pretty well known but then beyond
that the tragedy is his own daughter and
we have this in the court documents
exactly how little money she earned she
had a PhD from Cambridge University she
had the most elite education possible
basically every stage of her life
primary school high school first Oxford
then Cambridge and you know she was
earning nothing she was getting these
sir I could digress into all the people
I've known with PhDs who were making
less than minimum wage we had a
professor at University of Saskatchewan
who said he would make more money as a
bus driver and then he went ahead and
actually did it and the whole university
was shocked because they had just
assumed he was gonna show up and teach
class on whatever September 10th the
start of the next semester and then he
wasn't there and he said what do you
think I was joking like I said at the
last department meeting I couldn't you
know you don't pay me enough
okay make more as a bus driver so we did
it he left his position as a professor
at a university with a PhD to become a
bus driver and I think in that province
but bus drivers were quite well-paid and
we have another friend who you know I
don't know the exact amount now but she
told me a couple years ago she has a PhD
and her rent was about $1,100 a month
and her income was the horse a month
she's not a full professor or she's a
university instructor or an adjunct
professor they make up these terms and
excuses but I mean dude having a PhD is
not success it doesn't mean respect in
your field doesn't mean you're a
successful author doesn't mean you can
publish a book and of people with your
books it doesn't mean you can upload a
youtube video and have just 1,000 people
who care to listen to your opinion about
politics and my whole life have been
surrounded by these people with PhDs and
a lot of them tell me not you don't not
it for a lot of them tell me wow I can't
believe you know I can't believe you can
do a video so does it seem really
specific I do a video my critique of
Noam Chomsky about Cambodian politics
and I really reach an audience that
wants to hear that and they say wow
because their experiences they work so
hard and I got this PhD and they go to
academic conferences and they never
reach an audience and nobody cares about
their ideas and you know they have a lot
of fun they have a lot of frustration
disappointment both financially and
otherwise but yeah it's really sad to
see Pete playing this game where he
wants to present his daughter as this
great success in contrast to my my
failure Pete have you put your own
daughter's name into Google it's a
tragedy Pete it's a tragedy what
happened to your to your daughter and
she invested so many years of her life
and so much money in in getting this PhD
and as of the last I heard she was
trying to scrape out a living in in
marketing it didn't look convincing you
know that website now that website is
gone and you know she's long since given
up on publishing books or doing research
or having any kind of career in
anthropology whether it's a professor
researcher anthropology was what her
pitched is and it's a really tragic
story it's a really cautionary tale and
my own life I spend a lot of time on
this channel examining my failures
examining bad decisions I made and I
think it's great that on the internet
other people can come on and make a
youtube video criticizing the decisions
I made also I criticized the decisions
gene that James asked me makes I
criticize the decisions earthling ed
makes I criticize the decisions all
kinds of other people make and my
criticisms let's think about that Venn
diagram not insane
not ignorant not you know mean-spirited
not no no bad intentions it's a
different caliber the questions of good
taste involved also but you know no one
could be more welcoming or prepared than
me than to hear to hear exactly a
discussion of you know the
disappointments and dead ends of Western
academia whether in England Canada the
United States you know yeah let's talk
about that's what this channel is all
about and no one I mean I've never been
coming on the internet and saying oh
yeah I'm a great success as a baker I
want to bake in college I said it was a
disaster although you're talking about
the disaster I'm talking about the
setbacks in in my life
so look guys if you believe in freedom
of speech know this this right here this
is the price of fame at any level Micro
Fame can have all the disadvantages of
Fame in none of the advantages there are
5,000 people who know my name whatever
the number is but guess what I live
under that spotlight and at any time my
ex-wife's father can come on the
internet and say I'm a piece of crap one
of my ex-girlfriends could come on the
internet and say I'm a piece of crap
you know I have to live under that
weight at all times and I have to live
with the consequences not of my actions
and not of fictional made-up stories
other people make up about my actions I
have to live ultimately with the
consequences of the credulity and
stupidity of the audience whether or not
you're cut out for this life the choice
is yours